= GameDev LOD Create =

#type: node
#context: sop
#internal: gamedev::sop_lod_create::2.0
#icon: lodcreate
#tags: tech, model

""" The LOD Create SOP allows for easy LOD generation. """

The LOD Create SOP allows for easy LOD generation. The tool is a one node pipeline consisting of all the other tools in the toolset such as baking, polyreduction, geometry cleanup, uvs and more.
The output of this tool is an FBX containing Level of Details that can be used in other DCCs or Game Engines.


:col:
	[Image:/images/lod_create_UI.png]

@parameters
    == Processing ==
    Generate LODs:
        Bake textures and meshes to disk.
    == Decimation Settings ==
    Visualizer:
        Enable text label in viewport to display current LOD and polygon count.
    Debug All LOD:
        Display all LOD levels side by side.
    LOD Viewing Mode:
        Choose to select the viewed LOD with the LOD slider, or based on distance to a camera, or don't display.
    Camera:
        Camera to use to select which LOD level to display.
    LOD:
        Slider to select what LOD level to display.
    Preset:
        This menu is driven by a JSON file containing preset values for LOD settings. These presets can be modified in the Extra Files section of this HDA.
    Consolidate Shader At:
        This controls at which LOD level all attached shaders get consolidated into a single material.
    Last LOD is Impostor:
        Enables/Disables the use of an impostor for the last LOD.
    Remove Insides:
        This enables the automatic removal of inside faces.
    Preserve Quads:
        This enables / disables the preservation of quads during polyreduction.
    Equalize Lengths:
        This controls the equalization of edge lengths during polyreduction.
    Recalculate Normals:
        Enables/Disables the recalculation of vertex normals after polyreduction.
    Cusp Angle:
        When Recalculate Normals is on, this sets the desired cusping angle.
    Weighting Method:
        The weighting method for recalculating the vertex normals.
    Attribute:
        An optional attribute used for polyreducing based on attribute values.
    Weight:
        This drives the polyreduction based on attribute values as a scalar.
    Mode:
        How the size is determined
    Threshold:
        Pieces with the Area or Perimeter smallest than this will be removed 
    Delete Non Selected:
        Invert the operation
	UV Attribute:
        UV attribute to operate on
    Initial Fuse Dist:
        There is a built in intial Fuse Node to ensure good island connectivity, this is the distance threshold for that operation. 
    Cutoff:
        Size threshold of the islands that will be merged back into larger pieces
    Flattening Method:
        Method for reflattening the islands based on the new seams
    Iterations:
        Attempts at merging the islands together. Higher values produce smoother results
    Optimize UV Border:
        Attempts to remove triangles that are sticking to the side of the UV island. May cause small islands to reappear
    == LOD Settings ==     
    LODs:
        This sets the number of LODs in the multiparm, which allows you to specify LOD settings on a per entry basis.
    Custom Mesh:
        This allows you to specify a custom piece of geometry to swap this LOD for.
    Percent Triangles:
        The desired target percentage of triangles from the original mesh.
    Threshold Distance:
        The threshold distance at which this LOD starts.
    == Shader Consolidation ==
    Correct Area Proportions:
        Enabling this will correct the area proportions of the UV shells compared to the geometry it belongs to.
    Axis-Align:
        This will try to axis align your UV shells as best as possible.
    Padding:
        Controls the padding between UV shells.
    Orientations:
        Drives the number of possible orientation iterations during the UV layout solve.
    Use MikkT Tangent Space:
        Enables/Disables the use of MikkT tangent space normals during the baking.
    Output basecolor in Linear Space:
        Allows for the baking of the basecolor textures in linear space instead of gamma 2.2.
    Tangent Normal Flip Y:
        Flips the Y axis of the normalmap.
    Cage Mesh:
        Optional cage mesh. Must have the same topology and UVs as the UV Object. Typically a dupicate of UV Object whose vertices are slightly pushed outward. Used to determine the projection direction.
    Border Padding:
        Additional pixels at the border of each UV island 
    Baking Samples:
        Number of Samples used for raytraced shading
    Ray Bias:
        Determine how much to offset the rays from the surface of the object along the normal vector. 
    Ray Distance:
        Maximum Distance to trace for nearby surfaces. -1 means infinite distance.
    Vertex Color:
        Sets the map name used for Vertex Color.
    Roughness Map:
        Sets the map name used for Roughness Map.
    Metallic Map:
        Sets the map name used for Metallic Map.
    Normal Map:
        Sets the map name used for Normal Map.
    Ambient Occlusion:
        Sets the map name used for Ambient Occlusion Map.
    Opacity Map:
        Sets the map name used for Opacity Map.
    Custom Channels:
        This multiparm allows you to add any additional maps you'd like to bake based on attribute names.
    == Impostor Settings == 
    Render in One Image:
        When this toggle is enabled, all frames of the impostor texture are generated with a lens shader instead of on a per frame basis.
    Impostor Type:
        This allows you to set the impostor type that has to be generated.
    Sprite Resolution:
        This sets the sprite resolution. (Ex: If you have 8x8 frames at 128x128 pixels, this means a combined 1024x1024 pixel texture)
    XY Frames:
        Sets the number of XY frames that need to be generated for the impostor texture.
    Atlas Resolution:
        When Impostor Type is set to Octahedron, this controls the overall impostor texture resolution.
    Octahedron Zoom:
        This controls the camera zoom amount for the Octahedron impostor camera lens.
    Animation Frames:
        When Impostor Type is set to Animation, this controls how many frames you want to encode in the impostor.
    == Export Settings ==
    Export in ASCII Format:
        This controls if the FBX should be exported in Binary or ASCII format.
    FBX SDK Version:
        Allows you to override the FBX SDK used for export. Typically the default value is the best.
    LOD Group Name:
        This allows you to override the container name for the generated LOD Hierarchy.
    LOD Mesh Name Prefix:
        This allows you to override the Mesh name prefix for the LOD levels.
    Output:
        This specifies the location of the FBX that gets exported.
    Export Source Textures:
        When this toggle is enabled, any embedded textures or procedural materials attached will get exported to disk aswell.
    Resolution:
        This sets the resolution of the exported textures.
    Pre Multiply:
        This controls if the basecolor/beauty map alpha channel should be premultiplied.
    Beauty Map:
        Enables/Disables the generation of the Beauty Atlas for the impostor.
    Beauty Atlas:
        This specifies where the Beauty Atlas should be saved to.
    Base Color Map:
        Enables/Disables the generation of the Base Color Atlas for the impostor.
    Base Color Atlas:
        This specifies where the Base Color Atlas should be saved to.
    Normals Map:
        Enables/Disables the generation of the Normal Atlas for the impostor.
    Normals Atlas:
        This specifies where the Normal Atlas should be saved to.

    