= GameDev Physics Painter =

#type: node
#context: sop
#internal: gamedev::sop_physics_painter
#icon: physicspainter
#tags: tech, model

""" Physics Painter is a SOP that allows users to paint physics objects onto any other object. """

Physics Painter is a SOP that allows users to paint physics objects onto any other object, and simulate gravity. The result of the previous simulation can be fed into a new iteration of a simulation as often as required.
This is a very powerful node frequently used for setdressing. Instead of scattering objects, this tool allows an artist to highly art-direct objects in a scene.

@parameters
    Dry Current Paint:
        Pressing this button will convert all current active (green) objects from a simulation state to a frozen static state.
    Clear Current Paint:
        This will clear out all currently active objects from your scene.
    Activate All Paint:
        This will reactivate all previously frozen simulation objects in your scene back to an active state.
    Clear All Paint:
        Pressing this button will completely erase all previously painted simulation geometry. This cannot be undone.
    == Quick Settings ==
    Paint Bucket Mode:
        When this toggle is enabled, the paint brush will stamp buckets of objects rather than single objects along your strokes.
    Bucket Items:
        When Paint Bucket Mode is enabled, this controls how many items are contained inside each stamped bucket.
    Stroke Padding:
        The stroke padding controls how much padding is applied between each "stamp" of simulation meshes along the stroke.
    Surface Offset:
        This allows you to offset the drawn simulation meshes on your curve from the static geometry.
    Min Rotation:
        This controls the minimum value of the initial rotation range.
    Max Rotation:
        This controls the maximum value of the initial rotation range.
    Min Scale:
        This controls the minimum value of the initial scale range.
    Max Scale:
        This controls the maximum value of the initial scale range.
    == Objects ==
    Quick Add:
        Adding a path to a node in this parameter will automatically add said object to the objects to be painted with in the multiparm below.
    Sim Mesh:
        This is the geometry for this paint object that should be used for the simulation mesh. (This can be a proxy)
    Render Mesh:
        This allows you to replace the simulated mesh with a high resolution object. This allows you to do the simulation using a low-resolution proxy, but have an output of a final high quality render mesh.
    Weight:
        This weight is used for the randomization of the paint objects along the stroke curve. This is not a percentage, but a value relative to other paint object weights. (Weighted Random)
    
    
    