= GameDev Quick Material =

#type: node
#context: sop
#internal: gamedev::sop_quickmaterial::2.0
#icon: quickmaterial
#tags: tech, model

""" The QuickMaterial sop is a convenience tool that allows you to very easily set up PBR materials. """

The QuickMaterial sop is a convenience tool that allows you to very easily set up PBR materials. The materials you can create using this SOP are the principledshader, and the GameDev PBR shader. The tool does not offer any additional benefits over creating your own in the MAT context besides configuration speed.

@parameters
    Materials:
        This multiparm controls how many materials should be created and assigned to the input mesh.
    Material Type:
        This allows you to specify what material you want to assign to the geometry.
    Material Name:
        This sets the material name for the generated MAT shader.
    Group:
        This allows you to assign the created shader to only a specific set of primitives when needed.
    == Principledshader ==
    BaseColor Texture:
        Sets the texture used for basecolor.
    Tint:
        This is the tint with which the basecolor texture gets multiplied.
    Opacity Texture:
        Sets the texture used for opacity.
    Normal Texture:
        Sets the texture used for the normals.
    Flip Y:
        This allows you to flip the Y channel of the normalmap specified in "Normal Texture".
    Rounded Edge:
        Allows the toggling on of the rounded edge shader.
    Radius:
        Controls the radius for the rounded edge in the shader.
    Mode:
        Controls the type of edges which should be included in the rounded edge detection.
    Roughness Texture:
        Sets the texture used for roughness.
    Roughness:
        This functions as a scalar for the roughness texture when supplied. If there is no roughness texture supplied, this functions as a constant roughness value.
    IOR:
        Sets the Index of Refraction of the material.
    Metallic Texture:
        Sets the texture used for metallic.
    Metallic:
        This functions as a scalar for the metallic texture when supplied. If there is no roughness texture supplied, this functions as a constant metallic value.
    == GameDev PBR ==
    Base Color:
        Allows you to set the diffuse tint of this material. This will get multiplied with the Albedo Texture when supplied.
    Albedo Texture:
        Sets the texture used for the basecolor.
    Horizon Smoothing:
        Controls the smoothing of the environment reflections.
    Invert Roughness:
        Allows you to invert the roughness values.
    Occlusion:
        Controls the intensity of the AO map.
    Texture:
        Ambient Occlusion Map.
    Emission Intensity:
        This controls the overall emission intensity.
    Emission Color:
        Sets the emission color.
    Emission Texture:
        This is an optional slot to provide your emission texture.
    Transparency:
        This controls the overall transparency of the material.
    Transparency Texture:
        This is an optional slot to provide your transparency texture.
    Importance Sampled Ambient:
        Use a fancier way of sampling the diffuse information from Environment Lights
    Number of Diffuse Samples:
        Number of Samples of the Environment Light during diffuse calculations
    Importance Sampled Reflections:
        Realtime blurring of the cubemap based on the roughness of the object
    Number of Specular Samples:
        Controls the number of samples taken for the specular contribution.
    Shade Both Sides As Front:
        Realtime blurring of the cubemap based on the roughness of the object
    == GameDev Matcap ==
    MatCap Texture:
        Sets the texture used for the matcap calculation.
    Use MatCap Alpha:
        Enables/Disables the use of the alpha channel in the matcap shader.
    