= GameDev AV Texturing =

#type: node
#context: sop
#internal: sop_av_texturing::3.0
#icon: alicevision.png
#tags: tech, photogrammetry

"""  Texture the generated mesh using Alicevision. """

The objective of this step is to texture the generated mesh. The output of this node is a high-poly mesh with very basic UVs and textures. It is highly recommended to reproject the textures on a meshwith custom UVs. (For example using the Games Baker or Simple Baker)

@parameters
    == Main ==
    Cook:
        Start the cooking process for this step.
    Manual Mode:
        This toggle controls if the node should automatically recook if any dependencies have changed.
    Use Log:
        This toggle controls if the status of the current node should be printed to the console. This is useful for getting a quick overview of the progress.
    == Texturing ==
    Texture Side:
        Output texture size.
    Texture Downscale:
        Texture downscale factor.
    Texture File Type:
        Texture File Type.
    Unwrap Method:
        Method to unwrap input mesh if it does not have UV coordinates.
        ' Basic (> 600k faces) fast and simple. Can generate multiple atlases.

        ' LSCM (<= 600k faces): optimize space. Generates one atlas.

        ' ABF (<= 300k faces): optimize space and stretch. Generates one atlas.
    Fill Holes:
        Fill Texture holes with plausible values.
    Flip Normals:
        Option to flip face normals. It can be needed as it depends on the vertices order in triangles and the convention change from one software to another.
    Use UDIM UVs:
        Use UDIM UV mapping.
    Padding:
        Texture edge padding size in pixels.
    Best Score Threshold:
        (0.0 to disable filtering based on threshold to relative best score).
    Angle Hard Threshold:
        (0.0 to disable angle hard threshold filtering)/
    Force Visible By All Vertices:
        Triangle visibility is based on the union of vertices visiblity.
    Visibility Remapping Method:
        Method to remap visibilities from the reconstruction to the input mesh (Pull, Push, PullPush).
    Use Custom Images for Texturing:
        Use images from a specific folder instead of those specify in the SfMData file. Filename should be the image uid.
    Custom Texturing Images:
        Use images from a specific folder instead of those specify in the SfMData file. Filename should be the image uid.
    Correct Exposure:
        Uniformize images exposure values.
    Use Score:
        Use triangles scores for multiband blending.
    Process Colorspace:
        Colorspace for the texturing internal computation (does not impact the output file colorspace).
    Multi Band Downscale:
        Width of frequency bands for multiband blending.

    